a flexible deck reacts to threats before they disrupt hou
a resilient deck is disrupted and powers on anyway

is multiple win cons flexible or resilient? is protectimg your songle wkn con flexible or resilient?

maybe say that the label isn't the important part, as long as the deck does all or most of the things

on the TO comments, mindablaze makes a good point tjat both flexible and resilient decks fall undee rhe beoader xatgeory of "Adaptablw", but at opposite ends. mahbe rewoek tje 7 charactwristics into 3 pairs and a singleton?

also, dont equate a card being flexible witj tje deck being flexible. a deck is made of cards, but is greater than tje sum of its parts, and mist be considered as a single unit.

"Defining tje Aspects of Strategy" would be a good chapter

instead of talkinv about tje sevem aspects, make my own grouping?
Adaprability
Output

also talk about how playstyle affects these elements. an agressive sryle that burns througj cards vs a controlled style that only plays things when absolutely necessary. use casting giant growth as an offensice vs defensivespell as an example.



winning quickly can overrule the need for a sustainable deck, if you can consistently win quickly 

talk abour single cards fitting multiple cats, like cryptic command and nahiri the harbinger ams the new exert dragon and some old caed


TODO: A cjapter about play tips. how tp bait removal and xounterspells, wjen to trade and wjen to not block, when to counter (especially if you jave multiple in hand), when to use removal, etc

also discuss jow different decks have different definitions. an aggro decks cersion of sustainable is different than a control decks, for exa,ple

TODO: actually, say that draft is a decent way to learn. as long as you inderstand the basics (untap, draw, ome land, play, maybe run through them quickly) a draft at ypirLGS is great. the magic, tje gaming community, is actually pretty froendly. there are soke bad apples, there always aee, and its prpnably npt the best idea to go on a release nignt, but its a good place to learn hpw tp play.

mention that these are important to understand, bit you wont need tp be too strict for draft.

rule of 9 is ontwresting but irrelevemt. maybe 9 "effectively dirrent" cards? ie, ponder and brainstprm or demonic and vampiriroc tutor

mention that some things, like cohesiveness and consitency are determined mostly by the cards you draft

Tbh, is this really necessary? Your deck is mostly decided on by the cards yout ake. Acutlly, since you will be taking more than 40 cards, I suppose this is useful. I certainly don't need to go too big on it. A single chapter, a few pages for each category.

Should I use card examples or deck examples? Deck examples. I'll use the same deck for all of them, and a second deck that will be different in each of them. 

Maybe instead of saying Effectiveness is a seperate cat, say that effectiveness is the culmination of all the rest? Maybe go into some detail, but preface with a "You can just read the summaries of each section, as they are more relelvant for constructed play. WHile the knowledge is useful, it won't have too much of an impact in a draft".





























